README.md, before:

# Tips #

This is a list of articles on useful tips.

Table of contents
=================
* [System](#system)
* [Git](#git)
* [IDE](#IDE)
* [Misc](#misc)


## System
- [Access a remote server with `ssh` and `xpra` together](system/xpra-ssh.md)
- [`fasd` -- For faster folder and file jump](system/fasd.md)
- [Shortcuts for taking screenshots](system/screenshot-shortcut.md)
- [WSL -- Linux command line in Windows](system/wsl.md)
  * How to use the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL).  Thus you can
    run Linux commands in Windows on the fly without creating a
    virtual machine or installing a dual boot system.
- [Hyper-V -- Virtual Machine](system/hyper-v.md)
  * A Windows component that enables you to create a virtual machine.


## Git and GitHub
- [GitHub Markdown](github/github-markdown.md)
- [Use Emoji on GitHub](github/emoji-on-github.md)
- [Link to Code Block](github/link-github-code-block/link-github-code-block.md)
- [Close an issue via commit message](github/refer-and-close-an-issue-in-commit.md)
- [Compose a GitHub links](github/compose-github-links.md)
  * For programmably composing the links to download a file in a
    specific commit from GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket, etc.


## IDE
- [Code-server](ide/code-server-on-azure-dsvm.md)


## MLHub

- [**azface** - Face Detection and Recognition](mlhub/azface.md)
  * A [MLHub](https://mlhub.ai/) package that wraps the Azure Face
    API.


## Azure

- [Available Type/Size of Machines in Each Region](azure/machine-by-region.md)


## Misc

Commit message:

Add how to use pathlib

README.md, after:

# Tips #

This is a list of articles on useful tips.

## Table of contents ##

* [System](#system)
* [Git and GitHub](#git-and-github)
* [IDE](#ide)
* [MLHub](#mlhub)
* [Azure](#azure)
* [Python](#python)
* [Misc](#misc)


## System ##

- [Access a remote server with `ssh` and `xpra` together](system/xpra-ssh.md)
- [`fasd` -- For faster folder and file jump](system/fasd.md)
- [Shortcuts for taking screenshots](system/screenshot-shortcut.md)
- [WSL -- Linux command line in Windows](system/wsl.md)
  * How to use the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL).  Thus you can
    run Linux commands in Windows on the fly without creating a
    virtual machine or installing a dual boot system.
- [Hyper-V -- Virtual Machine](system/hyper-v.md)
  * A Windows component that enables you to create a virtual machine.


## Git and GitHub ##

- [GitHub Markdown](github/github-markdown.md)
- [Use Emoji on GitHub](github/emoji-on-github.md)
- [Link to Code Block](github/link-github-code-block/link-github-code-block.md)
- [Close an issue via commit message](github/refer-and-close-an-issue-in-commit.md)
- [Compose a GitHub links](github/compose-github-links.md)
  * For programmably composing the links to download a file in a
    specific commit from GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket, etc.


## IDE ##

- [Code-server](ide/code-server-on-azure-dsvm.md)


## MLHub ##

- [**azface** - Face Detection and Recognition](mlhub/azface.md)
  * A [MLHub](https://mlhub.ai/) package that wraps the Azure Face
    API.


## Azure

- [Available Type/Size of Machines in Each Region](azure/machine-by-region.md)


## Python ##

- [Unify Path Manipulatio with `pathlib`](python/pathlib.md)


## Misc ##
