system/wsl.md, before:

# Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) #

* [What is WSL](#what-is-wsl)
* [How does WSL Work](#how-does-wsl-work)
* [Installation](#installation)
  + [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  + [Install WSL](#install-wsl)
  + [Install a Linux Distro](#install-a-linux-distro)
* [Usage](#usage)
  + [Launch WSL](#launch-wsl)
  + [Interaction with Windows](#interaction-with-windows)
  + [GUI Applications](#gui-applications)
* [Misc](#misc)
  + [File System](#file-system)
  + [Uninstallation](#uninstallation)
  + [WSL 2](#wsl-2)
* [Reference](#reference)


## What is WSL ##

[**WSL** -- the Windows Subsystem for
Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about), was
introduced in 2016.  It was called Bash on Ubuntu on Windows back
then.  It is a component in Windows that makes you can run Linux
commmands (Linux binary executables) directly in Windows.  It looks
like a virtual machine but without the overhead of it.

The primary purpose of WSL is to make the Linux command-line tools can
be run in Windows and interact with other Windows command-line tools.


## How does WSL Work ##

The request for a Linux system call from any Linux applications in WSL
will be translated by a Linux kernel compatibility layer into a
request of Windows kernel calls.  So it looks like a command-line
Linux distro without the actual Linux kernel but a Linux kernel
compatibility layer in Windows.

It is different from Cygwin, because Cygwin provides Cygwin runtime
running in user mode to do the translation, and all Linux application
needs to be rebuilt from source and linked to Cygwin runtime to be
used in Windows.


## Installation ##

### Prerequisites ###

To use WSL, your OS must be Windows 10 version 1709 or the latest.
You can check the version by running `systeminfo` in PowerShell or
going to `Settings` -> `System` -> `About`.

### Install WSL ###

Go to 'Turn Windows Features On or Off' (`Control Panel` -> `Programs`
-> `Programs and Features`), tick on the box 'Windows Subsystem for
Linux' to install WSL and reboot.

Or run the command below in PowerShell as administrator:

```ps1con
PS> Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux
```

### Install a Linux Distro ###

Then you also need to go to Microsoft Store and search for a Linux
distro (for example, Ubuntu) to install.


## Usage ##

### Launch WSL ###

To Launch WSL, you can launch the installed Linux distro from Windows
Start menu.

You can also launch it from PowerShell (Below I use `PS>` to indicate
PowerShell and `$` to indicate Linux command line in WSL):

```ps1con
PS> ubuntu  # Launch Ubuntu
PS> debian  # Or launch Debian
PS> wsl     # Launch the default distro
```

Then you are inside WSL command line environment, where you can run
Linux commands just like in a Linux machine:

```console
$ ls -a
.  ..  .bash_history  .bash_logout  .bashrc  .profile  .sudo_as_admin_successful
```

### Interaction with Windows ###

* Other than launching and run Linux commands inside a WSL distro, you
  can also run the commands directly in Windows without going into the
  distro first:
  
  ```ps1con
  PS> wsl ls -a
  .  ..  .bash_history  .bash_logout  .bashrc  .profile  .sudo_as_admin_successful
  ```

* You can also feed the output from a Windows command to a Linux
  command, and vice versa:
  
  ```ps1con
  PS> ipconfig | wsl grep IPv4  # Pipeline Windows and Linux command in PowerShell
     IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 10.168.2.39
     IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 192.168.139.81
  PS> wsl                       # Launch WSL
  $ ipconfig.exe | grep IPv4    # Pipeline Windows and Linux command in WSL
     IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 10.168.2.39
     IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 192.168.139.81
  ```
  
  **Note**: Windows command should be appended with `.exe` extension
  if run in WSL.


### GUI Applications ###

1. To launch a GUI app in WSL, such as gedit, a X Server needs to be
   installed in Windows so that it can be shown in Windows instead of
   WSL, since WSL is just a command line environment.  There are many
   X Server apps in Windows,
   [Xming](https://sourceforge.net/projects/xming/) and
   [VcXsrv](https://sourceforge.net/projects/vcxsrv/) are two of them.
1. Then set the `DISPLAY` to tell WSL to use the X Server.  For
   example:
   
   ```
   $ DISPLAY=:0 gedit
   ```
   
   Or you can add this into `~/.bashrc`:
   
   ```
   export DISPLAY=:0
   ```


## Misc ##

### File System ###

* In WSL, all Windows drives are mounted under `/mnt`.  To access the
  files under Windows' C or D drive, you can `cd /mnt/c` or `cd
  /mnt/d` in WSL.  To modify files in Windows from WSL, you need to
  run WSL as administrator other than as sudo.  The mounted Windows
  file system is DriveFs in WSL, and the Linux file system is VolFs in
  WSL.
  
* In Windows, all Linux file systems are in a directory like

  ```
  C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Packages\CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc\LocalState\rootfs\
  ```
  
  You can also open current working directory in WSL by executing `$
  explorer.exe .` (Note: The dot in the end of the command indicates
  current directory).  But be aware that modifying Linux files within
  Windows would have side effects, because some functionalities of
  Linux don't have similar counterparts in Windows, such as file mode,
  which would lead to inconsistencies in the file attributes when
  modified in Windows.


### Uninstallation ###

To uninstall one of the installed distros, you can right-click the
distro in Windows Start menu to uninstall it.  But then if you want to
reinstall it, you need to remove the installed directory of previous
installation, such as

```
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Packages\CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc\
```

### WSL 2 ###

WSL 2 is the second version of WSL, but with a completely different
structure from WSL.  Because it uses a lightweight VM to run a real
Linux kernel underneath instead of a compatibility translation layer,
WSL 2 makes Windows run much more Linux applications than WSL, and
allows to run docker containers natively.

WSL 2 is still under development, and is only available in [Windows
Insider Preview](https://insider.windows.com/en-us/getting-started/).

(**NOTE** Because Windows Insider Preview is a development version of
Windows, it is not stable and you will be at high risk of having a
malfunctional Windows and unable to do anything except reinstall or
reverting to a previous state.  Another way of testing would be to
install a [Window Insider Preview
ISO](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windowsinsiderpreviewadvanced)
in a virtual machine.  Though the ISO isn't the latest version, it
contains WSL 2 so that you can have a try.  The lowest version of
Windows with WSL 2 is Windows build 18917.)

To enable WSL 2 in Windows when you are Windows Insider Preview,
enable 'Virtual Machine Platform' in 'Turn Windows Features On and
Off' (`Control Panel` -> `Programs` -> `Programs and Features`) or run
the command:

```
PS> Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName VirtualMachinePlatform
```

The usage of WSL 2 is similar to WSL, but:

1. If you want to change a WSL distro into WSL 2, you need to convert
   it by
   
   ```
   PS> wsl --set-version <distro> 2
   ```
   
   And the conversion may take a very long time.  So if you want
   install a distro with WSL 2 as default, set the default version
   before getting the distro from Windows Store:
   
   ```
   PS> wsl --set-default-version 2
   ```
   
   If you are not sure about the version of a distro, check it by
   
   ```
   PS> wsl -l -v
   ```

1. Because WSL 2 is running in a VM, communication between WSL 2 and
   Windows is over virtual network, thus you need to enable public
   network access in X Server as well as in Windows firewall to allow
   GUI apps being shown in Windows.  And then add the IP of Windows to
   `DISPLAY`:
   
   ```
   $ DISPLAY=$(cat /etc/resolv.conf | grep nameserver | awk '{print $2}') gedit
   ```

   The IP of Windows relative to WSL 2 can be found in the file
   `/etc/resolv.conf`.  See [Reminder: For GUIs w/ WSL2 you need to
   allow for public
   access](https://www.reddit.com/r/bashonubuntuonwindows/comments/c1zfap/reminder_for_guis_w_wsl2_you_need_to_allow_for/).


## Reference ##

* [Windows Command Line Tools For Developers](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/commandline/)
* [Windows Subsystem for Linux Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about)
* [Microsoft/WSL -- GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL)
* [Bash On Ubuntu On Windows](https://github.com/abergs/ubuntuonwindows)
* [A community powered list of programs that work (and those that don't) on the Windows subsystem for Linux](https://github.com/ethanhs/WSL-Programs)
* [sirredbeard/Awesome-WSL](https://github.com/sirredbeard/Awesome-WSL)
* [Windows Subsystem for Linux Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/wsl/)
* [WSL 2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl2-index)

Commit message:

Update important note from Windows insider preview website

system/wsl.md, after:

# Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) #

* [What is WSL](#what-is-wsl)
* [How does WSL Work](#how-does-wsl-work)
* [Installation](#installation)
  + [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  + [Install WSL](#install-wsl)
  + [Install a Linux Distro](#install-a-linux-distro)
* [Usage](#usage)
  + [Launch WSL](#launch-wsl)
  + [Interaction with Windows](#interaction-with-windows)
  + [GUI Applications](#gui-applications)
* [Misc](#misc)
  + [File System](#file-system)
  + [Uninstallation](#uninstallation)
  + [WSL 2](#wsl-2)
* [Reference](#reference)


## What is WSL ##

[**WSL** -- the Windows Subsystem for
Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about), was
introduced in 2016.  It was called Bash on Ubuntu on Windows back
then.  It is a component in Windows that makes you can run Linux
commmands (Linux binary executables) directly in Windows.  It looks
like a virtual machine but without the overhead of it.

The primary purpose of WSL is to make the Linux command-line tools can
be run in Windows and interact with other Windows command-line tools.


## How does WSL Work ##

The request for a Linux system call from any Linux applications in WSL
will be translated by a Linux kernel compatibility layer into a
request of Windows kernel calls.  So it looks like a command-line
Linux distro without the actual Linux kernel but a Linux kernel
compatibility layer in Windows.

It is different from Cygwin, because Cygwin provides Cygwin runtime
running in user mode to do the translation, and all Linux application
needs to be rebuilt from source and linked to Cygwin runtime to be
used in Windows.


## Installation ##

### Prerequisites ###

To use WSL, your OS must be Windows 10 version 1709 or the latest.
You can check the version by running `systeminfo` in PowerShell or
going to `Settings` -> `System` -> `About`.

### Install WSL ###

Go to 'Turn Windows Features On or Off' (`Control Panel` -> `Programs`
-> `Programs and Features`), tick on the box 'Windows Subsystem for
Linux' to install WSL and reboot.

Or run the command below in PowerShell as administrator:

```ps1con
PS> Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux
```

### Install a Linux Distro ###

Then you also need to go to Microsoft Store and search for a Linux
distro (for example, Ubuntu) to install.


## Usage ##

### Launch WSL ###

To Launch WSL, you can launch the installed Linux distro from Windows
Start menu.

You can also launch it from PowerShell (Below I use `PS>` to indicate
PowerShell and `$` to indicate Linux command line in WSL):

```ps1con
PS> ubuntu  # Launch Ubuntu
PS> debian  # Or launch Debian
PS> wsl     # Launch the default distro
```

Then you are inside WSL command line environment, where you can run
Linux commands just like in a Linux machine:

```console
$ ls -a
.  ..  .bash_history  .bash_logout  .bashrc  .profile  .sudo_as_admin_successful
```

### Interaction with Windows ###

* Other than launching and run Linux commands inside a WSL distro, you
  can also run the commands directly in Windows without going into the
  distro first:
  
  ```ps1con
  PS> wsl ls -a
  .  ..  .bash_history  .bash_logout  .bashrc  .profile  .sudo_as_admin_successful
  ```

* You can also feed the output from a Windows command to a Linux
  command, and vice versa:
  
  ```ps1con
  PS> ipconfig | wsl grep IPv4  # Pipeline Windows and Linux command in PowerShell
     IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 10.168.2.39
     IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 192.168.139.81
  PS> wsl                       # Launch WSL
  $ ipconfig.exe | grep IPv4    # Pipeline Windows and Linux command in WSL
     IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 10.168.2.39
     IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 192.168.139.81
  ```
  
  **Note**: Windows command should be appended with `.exe` extension
  if run in WSL.


### GUI Applications ###

1. To launch a GUI app in WSL, such as gedit, a X Server needs to be
   installed in Windows so that it can be shown in Windows instead of
   WSL, since WSL is just a command line environment.  There are many
   X Server apps in Windows,
   [Xming](https://sourceforge.net/projects/xming/) and
   [VcXsrv](https://sourceforge.net/projects/vcxsrv/) are two of them.
1. Then set the `DISPLAY` to tell WSL to use the X Server.  For
   example:
   
   ```
   $ DISPLAY=:0 gedit
   ```
   
   Or you can add this into `~/.bashrc`:
   
   ```
   export DISPLAY=:0
   ```


## Misc ##

### File System ###

* In WSL, all Windows drives are mounted under `/mnt`.  To access the
  files under Windows' C or D drive, you can `cd /mnt/c` or `cd
  /mnt/d` in WSL.  To modify files in Windows from WSL, you need to
  run WSL as administrator other than as sudo.  The mounted Windows
  file system is DriveFs in WSL, and the Linux file system is VolFs in
  WSL.
  
* In Windows, all Linux file systems are in a directory like

  ```
  C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Packages\CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc\LocalState\rootfs\
  ```
  
  You can also open current working directory in WSL by executing `$
  explorer.exe .` (Note: The dot in the end of the command indicates
  current directory).  But be aware that modifying Linux files within
  Windows would have side effects, because some functionalities of
  Linux don't have similar counterparts in Windows, such as file mode,
  which would lead to inconsistencies in the file attributes when
  modified in Windows.


### Uninstallation ###

To uninstall one of the installed distros, you can right-click the
distro in Windows Start menu to uninstall it.  But then if you want to
reinstall it, you need to remove the installed directory of previous
installation, such as

```
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Packages\CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows_79rhkp1fndgsc\
```

### WSL 2 ###

WSL 2 is the second version of WSL, but with a completely different
structure from WSL.  Because it uses a lightweight VM to run a real
Linux kernel underneath instead of a compatibility translation layer,
WSL 2 makes Windows run much more Linux applications than WSL, and
allows to run docker containers natively.

WSL 2 is still under development, and is only available in [Windows
Insider Preview](https://insider.windows.com/en-us/getting-started/).

**NOTE** Because Windows Insider Preview is a development version of
Windows, it is not stable and you will be at high risk of having a
malfunctional Windows and unable to do anything except reinstall or
reverting to a previous state, as said in [Windows Insider Preview
Downloads](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windowsinsiderpreviewadvanced):

> If you want to stop using Windows 10 Insider Preview and return to
> your previous version of Windows, you'll need to reinstall your
> previous version from the recovery or installation media that came
> with your PC—typically a DVD. If you don't have recovery media, you
> might be able to create recovery media from a recovery partition on
> your PC using software provided by your PC manufacturer. You'll need
> to do this before you upgrade. Check the support section of your PC
> manufacturer's website for more info.
> 
> After you install Windows 10 Insider Preview, you won’t be able to
> use the recovery partition on your PC to go back to your previous
> version of Windows.

Another way of testing would be to
install a [Window Insider Preview
ISO](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windowsinsiderpreviewadvanced)
in a virtual machine.  Though the ISO isn't the latest version, it
contains WSL 2 so that you can have a try.  The lowest version of
Windows with WSL 2 is Windows build 18917.

To enable WSL 2 in Windows when you are Windows Insider Preview,
enable 'Virtual Machine Platform' in 'Turn Windows Features On and
Off' (`Control Panel` -> `Programs` -> `Programs and Features`) or run
the command:

```
PS> Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName VirtualMachinePlatform
```

The usage of WSL 2 is similar to WSL, but:

1. If you want to change a WSL distro into WSL 2, you need to convert
   it by
   
   ```
   PS> wsl --set-version <distro> 2
   ```
   
   And the conversion may take a very long time.  So if you want
   install a distro with WSL 2 as default, set the default version
   before getting the distro from Windows Store:
   
   ```
   PS> wsl --set-default-version 2
   ```
   
   If you are not sure about the version of a distro, check it by
   
   ```
   PS> wsl -l -v
   ```

1. Because WSL 2 is running in a VM, communication between WSL 2 and
   Windows is over virtual network, thus you need to enable public
   network access in X Server as well as in Windows firewall to allow
   GUI apps being shown in Windows.  And then add the IP of Windows to
   `DISPLAY`:
   
   ```
   $ DISPLAY=$(cat /etc/resolv.conf | grep nameserver | awk '{print $2}') gedit
   ```

   The IP of Windows relative to WSL 2 can be found in the file
   `/etc/resolv.conf`.  See [Reminder: For GUIs w/ WSL2 you need to
   allow for public
   access](https://www.reddit.com/r/bashonubuntuonwindows/comments/c1zfap/reminder_for_guis_w_wsl2_you_need_to_allow_for/).


## Reference ##

* [Windows Command Line Tools For Developers](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/commandline/)
* [Windows Subsystem for Linux Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about)
* [Microsoft/WSL -- GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL)
* [Bash On Ubuntu On Windows](https://github.com/abergs/ubuntuonwindows)
* [A community powered list of programs that work (and those that don't) on the Windows subsystem for Linux](https://github.com/ethanhs/WSL-Programs)
* [sirredbeard/Awesome-WSL](https://github.com/sirredbeard/Awesome-WSL)
* [Windows Subsystem for Linux Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/wsl/)
* [WSL 2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl2-index)
